As Printers Cafe shutters, patrons lament end of an era
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/business/2024/04/09/as-printers-cafe-shutters-patrons-lament-end-of-an-era/
Apr 09, 2024 09:14 AM

AISummary:
Printers Cafe closed this week after more than three decades on California Avenue. The cafe, which began as a book store, shut down to accommodate a new Palo Alto Fit gym. The gym needs a conditional use permit to operate on California Ave. The planning commission is slated to hold a public hearing on the permit on April 10. But the decision won’t be enough to placate the dozens of residents who have urged the city to step in and preserve Printers Cafe and its subtenants.

---

Buyers grab downtown San Jose condos in foreclosure auction with winning bids up to $32,300
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/09/san-jose-real-estate-house-home-foreclose-auction-condo-economy-china/
Apr 09, 2024 08:51 AM

AISummary:
Auction of ten condominiums in downtown San Jose housing tower continues despite court proceedings to delay the foreclosure and auction. The auction was held to sell the units to owners who would begin paying the HOA fees. The winning bids ranged from $31,500 to $32,300. The prices paid by the new owners were jaw-dropping by today’s standards in a Bay Area that features sky-high housing costs. The two-tower residential complex contains roughly 320 residences.

---

San Jose towers owner gets court to order delay for condo foreclosures
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/05/san-jose-home-house-condo-china-real-estate-court-foreclose-economy/
Apr 09, 2024 08:24 AM

AISummary:
Z&L Properties faces a foreclosure attempt due to delinquencies that have arisen from unpaid dues. The developer has managed to sell scores of condos in the western tower. Z&L is responsible for paying the dues on condos that have been completed but not yet sold. The development firm has proposed several projects in downtown San Jose but has yet to build any of them, other than the two-tower complex on West St. James. The firm has also put up for sale the two towers at 188 West St., both in San Jose.

---

Big affordable housing project in San Jose could boost micro economy
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/08/san-jose-house-home-affordable-build-economy-store-golf-real-estate/
Apr 08, 2024 02:28 PM

AISummary:
A housing project is planned next to the busy Topgolf sports, entertainment and dining venue. At one point, a prior owner of the site had proposed the development of a hotel on the prime property. Original plans called for restaurants, shops, two hotels and the Top golf complex. The economic fallout from the coronavirus outbreak, which hobbled the lodging and travel industries worldwide and in the Bay Area, helped to torpedo the hotel development proposal. Eventually, the development site landed in foreclosure and an affiliate of the lender took back the empty land in 2022.

---

Mountain View proposes to reverse ban on gas appliances for new construction
https://www.mv-voice.com/city-government/2024/04/08/mountain-view-proposes-to-reverse-ban-on-gas-appliances-for-new-construction/
Apr 08, 2024 12:53 PM

AISummary:
The City Council is expected to vote on the proposal to suspend the city’s all-electric building codes on Tuesday, April 9. Five years ago, Mountain View adopted a set of “reach codes” to phase out the use of natural gas in homes and commercial buildings. The California Restaurant Association (CRA) filed a lawsuit against Berkeley, which was the first city to adopt an ordinance that banned gas infrastructure in new developments. The lawsuit alleged that the ordinance was in conflict with federal law, specifically the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA)

---

Palo Alto council to rule on conversion of movie theater to office space
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/community/2024/04/08/palo-alto-council-to-rule-on-conversion-of-movie-theater-to-office-space/
Apr 08, 2024 09:04 AM

AISummary:
Hudson Pacific Properties wants to convert Palo Alto Square's CinéArts theater to office space. The theater was part of the “planned community” ordinance that the city approved in 1969. City planners argued that removing the theater would violate the ordinance and, as such, would require a zoning amendment. The application remains incomplete, and discussions between Hudson and the city’s Department of Planning and Development Services are focused on traffic circulation, landscaping, parking, tree protection and public art.

---

An elevated experience
https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/an-elevated-experience/article_1275b9b8-f593-11ee-a0a0-3f230ab73298.html
Apr 08, 2024 05:45 AM

AISummary:
German Perez and Diego Paredes are the new co-owners of Elevate Barbershop. The Redwood City shop is in a prime location next to El Camino Real and generates a lot of clients by the nearby area’s walkability. The original location in San Mateo is running for about six years, and Perez has worked there for about five. Perez said he gets the opportunity to help other people feel confident because in return he gets to grow as a barber as well.

---

Market tightens, developers keep requesting extensions
https://www.smdailyjournal.com//news/local/market-tightens-developers-keep-requesting-extensions/article_745b75ce-f592-11ee-8156-ab00fea6c11d.html
Apr 08, 2024 05:24 AM

AISummary:
The developers of the 401 Concar Drive project in San Mateo are the latest to ask for an application extension from the city. The five-story development would be situated right next to the Hayward Park Caltrain station, comprising close to 200 residential units, ranging from studios to three-bedroom apartments. The project was approved by the city’s Planning Commission in 2022 but is still waiting to move ahead with construction once financing is secured. Other companies have also had to delay their developments over the past year, including the downtown Block 21 development, managed by Windy Hill Property Ventures.

---

Community Briefs: Farmers’ Market relocation, live music downtown and a May Day celebration
https://www.mv-voice.com/community/2024/04/06/community-briefs-farmers-market-relocation-live-music-downtown-and-a-may-day-celebration/
Apr 06, 2024 09:00 AM

AISummary:
The California Farmers’ Market Association has been using the city-owned lot off-and-on for years. The farmers market usually operates out of the downtown Mountain View Caltrain parking lot on Sundays, but switches to Lot 12 during 49ers home games. Caltrain’s electrification service tests are expected to continue through September 2024. The Village at San Antonio Center in Mountain View plans to host a free May Day celebration from noon to 2 p.m. on Saturday, May 11.

---

700-plus units — all affordable — could sprout in San Jose near tech hubs
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/04/san-jose-house-home-affordable-housing-build-tech-economy-store-golf/
Apr 05, 2024 09:58 AM

AISummary:
Housing project would be built at 7 Topgolf Drive in San Jose’s Alviso district. Developers envision 780 residences, according to a filing that proposes a “100% affordable housing’ project. The residences would be contained within eight buildings near the interchange of North First Street and State Route 237. At one point, a 200-room hotel was envisioned for the site, a project that seemed like a good bet when the proposal was floated before the onset of the coronavirus pandemic.

---

Mountain View parents and students mount opposition to school schedule plan that slashes elective time
https://www.mv-voice.com/education/2024/04/04/mountain-view-parents-and-students-mount-opposition-to-school-schedule-plan-that-slashes-elective-time/
Apr 04, 2024 06:22 PM

AISummary:
The Mountain View Whisman School District is looking to overhaul its schedule at Graham and Crittenden middle schools this fall. The current proposal is to shift from eight to seven periods, which would mean that students would generally take two electives at a time, down from three currently. Parents and students are pushing back, raising concerns about the decreased time for electives, as well as longer block periods that would be added two days a week. The change comes as test scores have dropped and behavioral issues have grown coming out of the pandemic.

---

Public Agenda
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/04/04/public-agenda-18/
Apr 04, 2024 05:23 PM

AISummary:
The council will interview candidates for vacancies on local boards and commissions. The council deferred action on removing parking spots along El Camino Real to make way for bike lanes. The commission approved the Utilities Department’s plan for the first year of the cross-boring program. The board plans to meet at 8:30 a.m. on Thursday, April 11, in the Council Chambers at City Hall, 250 Hamilton Ave. Those wishing to participate by Zoom can do so by dialing 669-900-6833 and using Meeting ID: 362 027 238.

---

Downtown San Jose economy faces fresh jolts as two tenant exits loom
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/03/san-jose-economy-real-estate-office-build-tenant-rent-downtown-tech/
Apr 03, 2024 04:09 PM

AISummary:
PwC, a professional services titan, and its recently purchased tech company, Surfaceink, are poised to leave downtown. PwC signed a lease for a big chunk of space in a new office building at Santana Row in West San Jose. At the end of 2023, downtown San Jose’s office availability rate was at an all-time high of 35.7%, according to a report from Savills. The prospect of tenant departures comes at a time when the city's office vacancy levels have soared to worrisome heights.

---

Palo Alto’s rideshare program at a crossroads as funding expires
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/04/03/palo-altos-rideshare-program-at-a-crossroads-as-funding-dwindles/
Apr 03, 2024 09:00 AM

AISummary:
Palo Alto Link is the city’s answer to Uber and Lyft, except it's far cheaper and it doesn’t extend beyond the city's borders. The program has been fueled by a $2 million grant from the Santa Clara Valley Transportation Authority that is set to expire in October. The city council will have to figure out in the next two months whether to keep the service running or to pull the plug. Most council members indicated that they favor keeping the service in place, though it may look different in its next iteration.

---

Santana Row office deal in San Jose offers real estate market hope
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/02/san-jose-real-estate-office-economy-tech-home-store-restaurant-jobs/
Apr 02, 2024 03:22 PM

AISummary:
PwC U.S. Group has signed a large office deal at One Santana West. The office building is part of Santana Row, a mixed-use neighborhood that also includes shops and restaurants. The professional services firm expects to shift 1,200 people to the new offices. It’s the second rental deal in the One Santana office building, which totals 376,000 square feet. The real estate executives involved in the transaction touted the amenities at Santana Row during the time that PwC and Acrisure were considering leasing transactions.

---

Mountain Winery owners propose boutique hotel, housing on Saratoga property
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/02/mountain-winery-owners-propose-boutique-hotel-housing-on-saratoga-property/
Apr 02, 2024 01:34 PM

AISummary:
The owners of Mountain Winery submitted plans to Santa Clara County for a mixed-use project. The project, called Encore, is intended to complement the Saratoga winery and concert venue’s existing operations. The housing will consist of 71 detached single-family homes, 31 triplexes and 145 multifamily units – 20 percent of which will be designated as affordable housing. The team involved with the project will begin to meet with residents, first with those in the immediate area.

---

Palo Alto council seeks more El Camino improvements as part of bike lane project
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/04/02/palo-alto-council-seeks-more-el-camino-improvements-as-part-of-bike-lane-project/
Apr 02, 2024 08:50 AM

AISummary:
The Palo Alto City Council voted 6-1 in favor of bike lanes along El Camino Real. Council members also insisted that the thoroughfare get additional safety improvements. The state Department of Transportation will consider these additional measures over the next two or three months. The project could launch as early as this summer, Caltrans officials say. The council’s vote wasn’t the type of ironclad commitment that Caltrans was hoping for, a council member says. But it did create a path for getting to the final decision in a fairly short period of time.

---

California Rep. Schiff proposes bill to turn government buildings into affordable housing
https://www.mercurynews.com/2024/04/02/rep-schiff-proposes-bill-to-turn-government-buildings-into-affordable-housing/
Apr 02, 2024 07:59 AM

AISummary:
Rep. Adam Schiff, D-Burbank, introduced the Government Facilities to Affordable Housing Conversion Act. If passed, the bill would create an annual report on government properties that are suitable for residential reuse. The bill would provide $250 million each year from fiscal year 2025 to 2030 to incentivize conversion projects. California needs to build 2.5 million new units by 2030, of which 1 million must be priced at affordable levels, to meet the state’s housing needs, according to the California Department of Housing and Community Development.

---

Tensions run high as Mountain View residents  share pain of living next to loud VTA bells
https://www.mv-voice.com/community/2024/04/01/tensions-run-high-as-mountain-view-residents-share-pain-of-living-next-to-loud-vta-bells/
Apr 01, 2024 12:02 PM

AISummary:
The Valley Transportation Authority (VTA) is trying to put an end to the incessant ringing of train bells. The VTA does not have a process in place to create quiet zones in residential areas, unlike the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), which regulates heavy rail operations. “The real problem we got is we have no rights. You guys can do whatever you want to us and that’s what you’re doing,” said VTA Deputy Director of Safety and Compliance.

---

Mountain View’s middle schools could get a new schedule with one fewer period, adding more time for each class
https://www.mv-voice.com/education/2024/03/29/mountain-views-middle-schools-could-get-a-new-schedule-with-one-fewer-period-adding-more-time-for-each-class/
Mar 29, 2024 01:48 PM

AISummary:
Mountain View Whisman School District has convened a committee to review options for Graham and Crittenden middle schools. The committee is leaning towards a schedule that would cut back the current eight-period system to seven. That would give more time for each class while maintaining the same daily start and end times. The new schedule would also add a weekly advisory period, during which counselors could provide lessons on social-emotional topics and teachers could check in with their students. The board was broadly supportive of the option that the committee preferred.

---

Palo Alto set to rule on El Camino bike lanes
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/transportation/2024/03/29/palo-alto-set-to-rule-on-el-camino-bike-lanes/
Mar 29, 2024 09:36 AM

AISummary:
Palo Alto's City Council will consider a proposal to remove parking spaces along El Camino Real. The proposal has galvanized both significant support and skepticism from local bicyclists. A recent review by the city’s consultant Fehr & Peers found that the project fails to comply with some of the principles of the “safe system’ approach. The city hopes to bring safety improvements to its network of high-injury roads as part of an ongoing effort to upgrade its bike master plan.

---

Public Agenda
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-government/2024/03/29/public-agenda-17/
Mar 29, 2024 09:02 AM

AISummary:
The Palo Alto City Council will meet on April 1 to discuss Palo Alto Link. The commission will consider a power purchase agreement with Ameresco Half Moon Bay LLC for up to 60,000 megawatt hours per year of biogas energy. The council agreed to appoint a seven-member committee to consider salary raises for council members. The planning and transportation commission heard an update on the city’s pending update of the Bicycle and Pedestrian Master Plan. The parks and recreation commission heard a presentation on a proposal to construct a Quarry Road extension through El Camino Park.

---

With $369M in wastewater upgrades, Palo Alto hopes to help stem algal blooms
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/environment/2024/03/28/stemming-the-red-tide/
Mar 28, 2024 09:43 AM

AISummary:
The $369-million upgrade to the treatment plant on Embarcadero Road is the city’s most expensive and most complex ongoing infrastructure project. Three tanks are currently filled, while the fourth basin sits empty as construction workers fortify its concrete base. The Bay Area Clean Water Agencies estimates that it will cost about $11 billion to implement the needed improvements. The next permit is still under development, but it is expected to give agencies 10 years to meet new thresholds for reducing nutrient loads in the region.

---

Will chain stores make a comeback in Palo Alto?
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/business/2024/03/28/will-chain-stores-make-a-comeback-in-palo-alto/
Mar 28, 2024 09:03 AM

AISummary:
Palo Alto is looking at revising a host of retail policies. Loosening restrictions on chain stores is on the top of the list. The city has about 461,000 square feet in vacant retail. The number has grown in recent years thanks to the rise of e-commerce and decline of office workers.. Property owners, meanwhile, claim that it’s not the rents that are driving the vacancies but grime and crime, which are deterring would-be tenants.

---

Plan to cut into El Camino Park for transit route faces resistance
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/stanford-university/2024/03/27/plan-to-cut-into-el-camino-park-for-transit-route-faces-resistance/
Mar 27, 2024 09:10 AM

AISummary:
Stanford and the Palo Alto city officials are looking to place on the November ballot, calls for “undedicating’ about about 0.33 acres of land at El Camino Park. The plan would create a direct connection on Quarry Road for buses to get between the Transit Center and the park. The change is expected to reduce bus trips by five to eight minutes, Stanford’s director for transportation and environmental planning said. Some members of the parks commission had some concerns about losing parkland.

---

Caltrain seeks new space for headquarters
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/peninsula/2024/03/27/caltrain-seeks-new-space-for-headquarters/
Mar 27, 2024 08:58 AM

AISummary:
Caltrain has been sharing its headquarters with SamTrans since the 1990s. SamTrans, San Mateo County’s bus system, is moving in 2025 to a new office space near the Millbrae Caltrain station. Caltrain is looking for a space of about 20,000 to 30,000 square feet, for a five- to 10-year lease. Top locations, considering distance to stations and amenities like shops and restaurants, include San Francisco, MillBrae, Redwood City andSan Mateo.

---

Katie Causey announces bid for Palo Alto City Council
https://www.paloaltoonline.com/city-politics/2024/03/26/katie-causey-announces-bid-for-palo-alto-city-council/
Mar 26, 2024 09:49 AM

AISummary:
Katie Causey is the first candidate to declare candidacy for the Palo Alto City Council. Causey, who serves on the city’s Human Relations Commission, is known for her roles at various local nonprofits. Her full-time job is as a community organizer for the Silicon Valley Bicycle Coalition. Council members Lydia Kou and Greg Tanaka are both concluding their second consecutive terms this year and are eligible to run again. The council will see four seats up for grabs in November, with three open seats.

---

